CHT tasks tutorial (#322)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/apps/tutorials/tasks.md

---
title: "Configuring Tasks"

> linkTitle: Tasks/Reminders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: Tasks
```
Have the `linkTitle` as just 'Tasks' to avoid confusion with SMS reminders.

> weight: 7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 9
```
Make it appear after the form properties tutorial.

  apps/features/tasks
  apps/reference/tasks
  apps/concepts/workflows
  design/apps/#anatomy-of-a-task

---

Tasks guide health workers through their days and weeks.

{{% pageinfo %}}
This tutorial will take you through how to configure tasks for CHT applications, including:

- Authoring tasks
- Compiling tasks into app settings and uploading

You will be configuring a task that allows Community Health Workers to conduct a health assessment follow up for children under the age of 5 that have a cough lasting more than 3 days, within 24 hours.
{{% /pageinfo %}}

## Brief Overview of Key Concepts

*[Tasks]({{< ref "apps/features/tasks" >}})* gives a UI overview of tasks.

*[Anatomy of a Task]({{< ref "design/apps#anatomy-of-a-task" >}})* takes you through the anatomy of a task

*[Task schema]({{< ref "apps/reference/tasks#tasksjs" >}})* details a set of properties for tasks.

*[Utils]({{< ref "apps/reference/tasks#utils" >}})* define a set of utility functions in the Core Framework can make common tasks much easier.

*[Nools extras]({{< ref "apps/reference/nools-extras" >}})* where helper variables and functions for Tasks and Targets are defined.

## Required Resources

> You should have a [functioning CHT instance with `medic-conf` installed locally]({{< ref "apps/tutorials/local-setup" >}}) and a [project folder set up]({{< ref "apps/tutorials/local-setup#3-create-and-upload-a-blank-project" >}}) already and the [assessment form]({{< ref "apps/tutorials/app-forms#implementation-steps" >}}) setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have a functioning [CHT instance with `medic-conf` installed locally]({{< ref "apps/tutorials/local-setup" >}}), completed a [project folder]({{< ref "apps/tutorials/local-setup#3-create-and-upload-a-blank-project" >}}) setup, and an [assessment form]({{< ref "apps/tutorials/app-forms" >}}).
```
Update to match what is in the form-properties tutorial for consistency.

## Implementation Steps

> It is good practice to setup a reference document for the tasks that may be, but not limited to the format below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is good practice to set up a reference document for the tasks similar to the one below. Other formats may also be used.

```
Restructure the sentence for clarity and add an empty line before the table.

| Source  | UI Label | Condition  | Due Date | Resolved | Window period |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| Assessment form  | Assessment follow up  | cough_duration > 3  | reported + 1 days  | When assessment follow up or another assessment report is submitted  | 7 days  |

Create the task as per the detail above.

### 1. Define the task

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

| end group                     |                   |                                    |          |                     |            |            |                     |             |                |      |         |

##### Choices

| list_name         | name | label           |
| ----------------- | ---- | --------------- |
| yes_no            | yes  | Yes             |
| yes_no            | no   | No              |
| progress_since_last_visit            | improved   | Improved              |
| progress_since_last_visit            | same   | Stayed same              |
| progress_since_last_visit            | worse   | Worsened              |

##### Settings

| form_title     | form_id    | version | style | path | instance_name  | default_language  |
| -------------- | ---------- | ------- | ----- | ---- | -------------- | ----------------- |
| Follow up| assessment_follow_up | 1       | pages | data |                | en                |

##### Sub-folder

```text
forms/app
```

> #### Build

Reviewer: Perhaps we can break down this step into two separate ones. ie. 'Compile and Upload App Settings' and 'Convert and Upload Task Form'.

Author: Makes sense.

To build your tasks into your app, you must compile them into app-settings, then upload them to your instance. Remember to convert and upload your assessment_follow_up form

```zsh
medic-conf --url=https://<username>:<password>@localhost --accept-self-signed-certs compile-app-settings backup-app-settings upload-app-settings convert-app-forms upload-app-forms -- assessment_follow_up

> ```

Reviewer: We could add some FAQs such as below:
```
## Frequently Asked Questions

- [Tasks not appearing](https://forum.communityhealthtoolkit.org/t/tasks-not-appearing/537)
- [How can I debug task rules?](https://forum.communityhealthtoolkit.org/t/how-can-i-debug-task-rules/108)
```

Author: Adding.
